README.md, before:

# C++ web analytics for Snowplow

[![Build Status][travis-image]][travis] [![Release][release-image]][releases] [![Coverage Status][coverage-image]][coverage] [![License][license-image]][license]

## Overview

Snowplow event tracker for C++. Add analytics to your C++ applications, servers and games

## Developer Quickstart

### Building on Mac OSX

```bash
 host> git clone https://github.com/snowplow/snowplow-cpp-tracker
 host> cd snowplow-cpp-tracker
 host> make
```

This will create two executables - the first is the test-suite which can be executed with `make unit-tests`.

The other is an example program which will send one of every type of event to an endpoint of your choosing like so:

```bash
 host> cd build
 host> ./tracker_example {{ your collector uri }}
```

If you make changes only to a header file there is a chance it won't be picked up by make in which case you will need to:

```bash
 host> make clean
 host> make
```

### Building on Windows

 ```git clone https://github.com/snowplow/snowplow-cpp-tracker```

In the cloned directory two [Visual Studio 2015](https://www.visualstudio.com/en-us/products/visual-studio-community-vs.aspx) project files are available:

* `snowplow-cpp-tracker.sln`
    This is required to compile the tracker and run the tests (you'll need this one to edit the tracker itself)
* `snowplow-cpp-tracker-example.sln`
    This is a demo project showing use of this tracker

To run the tests under windows, you need to open the `snowplow-cpp-tracker.sln` solution, build it for your target platform *and run the resulting executable*.    

## Find out more

| Technical Docs                  | Setup Guide               | Roadmap                 | Contributing                      |
|---------------------------------|---------------------------|-------------------------|-----------------------------------|
| ![i1] [techdocs-image]          | ![i2] [setup-image]       | ![i3] [roadmap-image]   | ![i4] [contributing-image]        |
| **[Technical Docs] [techdocs]** | **[Setup Guide] [setup]** | **[Roadmap] [roadmap]** | **[Contributing] [contributing]** |

## Copyright and license

The Snowplow C++ Tracker is copyright 2016 Snowplow Analytics Ltd.

Licensed under the **[Apache License, Version 2.0] [license]** (the "License");
you may not use this software except in compliance with the License.

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

[travis-image]: https://travis-ci.org/snowplow/snowplow-cpp-tracker.png?branch=master
[travis]: https://travis-ci.org/snowplow/snowplow-cpp-tracker

[release-image]: http://img.shields.io/badge/release-0.1.0-6ad7e5.svg?style=flat
[releases]: https://github.com/snowplow/snowplow-cpp-tracker/releases

[license-image]: http://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache--2-blue.svg?style=flat
[license]: http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

[coverage-image]: https://coveralls.io/repos/github/snowplow/snowplow-cpp-tracker/badge.svg?branch=master
[coverage]: https://coveralls.io/github/snowplow/snowplow-cpp-tracker?branch=master

[techdocs-image]: https://d3i6fms1cm1j0i.cloudfront.net/github/images/techdocs.png
[setup-image]: https://d3i6fms1cm1j0i.cloudfront.net/github/images/setup.png
[roadmap-image]: https://d3i6fms1cm1j0i.cloudfront.net/github/images/roadmap.png
[contributing-image]: https://d3i6fms1cm1j0i.cloudfront.net/github/images/contributing.png

[techdocs]: https://github.com/snowplow/snowplow/wiki/CPP-Tracker
[setup]: https://github.com/snowplow/snowplow/wiki/CPP-Tracker-Setup
[roadmap]: https://github.com/snowplow/snowplow/wiki/Product-roadmap
[contributing]: https://github.com/snowplow/snowplow/wiki/Contributing

Commit message:

Added instructions on local code coverage

README.md, after:

# C++ web analytics for Snowplow

[![Build Status][travis-image]][travis] [![Release][release-image]][releases] [![Coverage Status][coverage-image]][coverage] [![License][license-image]][license]

## Overview

Snowplow event tracker for C++. Add analytics to your C++ applications, servers and games

## Developer Quickstart

### Building on Mac OSX

```bash
 host> git clone https://github.com/snowplow/snowplow-cpp-tracker
 host> cd snowplow-cpp-tracker
 host> make
```

This will create two executables - the first is the test-suite which can be executed with `make unit-tests`.

The other is an example program which will send one of every type of event to an endpoint of your choosing like so:

```bash
 host> cd build
 host> ./tracker_example {{ your collector uri }}
```

If you make changes only to a header file there is a chance it won't be picked up by make in which case you will need to:

```bash
 host> make clean
 host> make
```

To run the test suite:

```bash
 host> make unit-tests
```

If you wish to generate a local code coverage report you will first need to install [lcov](http://ltp.sourceforge.net/coverage/lcov.php) on your host machine.  The easiest way to do this is using [brew](http://brew.sh/):

```bash
 host> brew install lcov 
```

Then run the following:

```bash
 host> make lcov-genhtml
```

The above runs the test suite and then generates a full code coverage report which can be accessed by opening the `index.html` in the `build` directory.

### Building on Windows

 ```git clone https://github.com/snowplow/snowplow-cpp-tracker```

In the cloned directory two [Visual Studio 2015](https://www.visualstudio.com/en-us/products/visual-studio-community-vs.aspx) project files are available:

* `snowplow-cpp-tracker.sln`
    This is required to compile the tracker and run the tests (you'll need this one to edit the tracker itself)
* `snowplow-cpp-tracker-example.sln`
    This is a demo project showing use of this tracker

To run the tests under windows, you need to open the `snowplow-cpp-tracker.sln` solution, build it for your target platform *and run the resulting executable*.    

## Find out more

| Technical Docs                  | Setup Guide               | Roadmap                 | Contributing                      |
|---------------------------------|---------------------------|-------------------------|-----------------------------------|
| ![i1] [techdocs-image]          | ![i2] [setup-image]       | ![i3] [roadmap-image]   | ![i4] [contributing-image]        |
| **[Technical Docs] [techdocs]** | **[Setup Guide] [setup]** | **[Roadmap] [roadmap]** | **[Contributing] [contributing]** |

## Copyright and license

The Snowplow C++ Tracker is copyright 2016 Snowplow Analytics Ltd.

Licensed under the **[Apache License, Version 2.0] [license]** (the "License");
you may not use this software except in compliance with the License.

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

[travis-image]: https://travis-ci.org/snowplow/snowplow-cpp-tracker.png?branch=master
[travis]: https://travis-ci.org/snowplow/snowplow-cpp-tracker

[release-image]: http://img.shields.io/badge/release-0.1.0-6ad7e5.svg?style=flat
[releases]: https://github.com/snowplow/snowplow-cpp-tracker/releases

[license-image]: http://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache--2-blue.svg?style=flat
[license]: http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

[coverage-image]: https://coveralls.io/repos/github/snowplow/snowplow-cpp-tracker/badge.svg?branch=master
[coverage]: https://coveralls.io/github/snowplow/snowplow-cpp-tracker?branch=master

[techdocs-image]: https://d3i6fms1cm1j0i.cloudfront.net/github/images/techdocs.png
[setup-image]: https://d3i6fms1cm1j0i.cloudfront.net/github/images/setup.png
[roadmap-image]: https://d3i6fms1cm1j0i.cloudfront.net/github/images/roadmap.png
[contributing-image]: https://d3i6fms1cm1j0i.cloudfront.net/github/images/contributing.png

[techdocs]: https://github.com/snowplow/snowplow/wiki/CPP-Tracker
[setup]: https://github.com/snowplow/snowplow/wiki/CPP-Tracker-Setup
[roadmap]: https://github.com/snowplow/snowplow/wiki/Product-roadmap
[contributing]: https://github.com/snowplow/snowplow/wiki/Contributing
